# Given an array of integers arr[] and an integer target.
# Return YES if there exist two numbers such that their sum is equal to the target. Otherwise, return NO.

## Brute force approach:

### Intuition:

For each element of the given array, we will try to search for another element such that their sum is equal to the target. If such two numbers exist, we will return the indices or “YES” accordingly.

### Approach:

1. **Outer Loop (Index i)**:  
   First, we will use a loop (say `i`) to select the indices of the array one by one.

2. **Inner Loop (Index j)**:  
   For every index `i`, we will traverse through the remaining array using another loop (say `j`) to find the other number such that the sum is equal to the target, i.e., `arr[i] + arr[j] = target`.

### Observation:

In every iteration, if the inner loop starts from index `0`, we will be checking the same pair of numbers multiple times. For example, in iteration 1, for `i = 0`, we will check the pair `arr[0]` and `arr[1]`. Again, in iteration 2, for `i = 1`, we will check `arr[1]` and `arr[0]`. To eliminate these same pairs, we will start the inner loop from `i + 1`.


```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

string twoSum(int n, vector<int> &arr, int target) {
    for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
        for (int j = i + 1; j < n; j++) {
            if (arr[i] + arr[j] == target) return "YES";
        }
    }
    return "NO";
}

int main()
{
    int n = 5;
    vector<int> arr = {2, 6, 5, 8, 11};
    int target = 14;
    string ans = twoSum(n, arr, target);
    cout << "This is the answer for variant 1: " << ans << endl;
    return 0;
}
```

## Complexity Analysis

**Time Complexity**: `O(N^2)`

**Space Complexity**: `O(1)`

## 2-pointer approach:

### Intuition:

In this approach, we will first sort the array and try to choose the numbers in a greedy way.

We will keep a left pointer at the first index and a right pointer at the last index. Now, until `left < right`, we will check the sum of `arr[left]` and `arr[right]`. 
- If the sum is less than the target, we need bigger numbers, so we will increment the left pointer.
- If the sum is greater than the target, we need to consider lesser numbers, so we will decrement the right pointer.

If the sum equals the target, we will return either “YES” or the indices, as per the question. 
But if the left pointer crosses the right pointer, we will return “NO” or `{-1, -1}`.

### Approach:

The steps are as follows:

1. **Sort the Array**:  
   We will sort the given array first.

2. **Initialize Pointers**:  
   Now, we will take two pointers: `left`, which points to the first index, and `right`, which points to the last index.

3. **Iterate and Compare Sum**:  
   Using a loop, we will check the sum of `arr[left]` and `arr[right]` until `left < right`.  
   - If `arr[left] + arr[right] > sum`, we will decrement the `right` pointer.
   - If `arr[left] + arr[right] < sum`, we will increment the `left` pointer.
   - If `arr[left] + arr[right] == sum`, we will return the result.

4. **Return Result**:  
   Finally, if no results are found, we will return “No” or `{-1, -1}`.


### Dry Run: 

Given array, `nums = [2,1,3,4]`, target = 4

1. **Sort the Array**:  
   First, we sort the array. After sorting, `nums = [1,2,3,4]`.

2. **Initialize Pointers**:  
   We take two pointers, `left` and `right`. Initially, `left` points to index `0` and `right` points to index `3`.

3. **Check Sum**:  
   Now, we check if `nums[left] + nums[right] == target`. In this case:  
   - `nums[left] + nums[right] = 1 + 4 = 5`, which is greater than the target, so we decrement the `right` pointer by `1`.  
   Now, `left = 0`, `right = 2`.

4. **Second Check**:  
   Here, `nums[left] + nums[right] = 1 + 3 = 4`, which is the required target.  
   Thus, we return the result.


```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

string twoSum(int n, vector<int> &arr, int target) {
    sort(arr.begin(), arr.end());
    int left = 0, right = n - 1;
    while (left < right) {
        int sum = arr[left] + arr[right];
        if (sum == target) {
            return "YES";
        }
        else if (sum < target) left++;
        else right--;
    }
    return "NO";
}

int main()
{
    int n = 5;
    vector<int> arr = {2, 6, 5, 8, 11};
    int target = 14;
    string ans = twoSum(n, arr, target);
    cout << "This is the answer for variant 1: " << ans << endl;
    return 0;
}
```

## Complexity Analysis

**Time Complexity**: `O(N)+O(N*logN)`

**Space Complexity**: `O(1)`
